proofing trello article (#13)
jaljo/articles: trello-history/trello-history.md

split projects in little tasks and share their progression between developers
and clients.

> If you've been working for a few years in software development, you're aware

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you've been working in software development for a few years, you're aware
```

> that even before architectural or implementation decisions, to define what your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that even before architectural or implementation decisions, defining what your
```

> client really **needs** stays on top of every project challenge. Let's imagine

Reviewer: ```suggestion
client really **needs** stays on top of every project's challenges. Let's imagine
```

you and one of your collaborators finally agreed on a feature definition (i.e
it's scope, what the feature will **do**, not how it will be achieved from a
more technical point of view).

> In an agile project's workflow, there is a chance some of these steps will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In an agile project's workflow, chances are that some of these steps will
```

happen:
1. You create a new ticket in your favorite collaborative tool,

> 2. you write the feature definition down this card,

Reviewer: Pourquoi avoir viré la préposition ici? Ça change le sens de la phrase et je crois que le sens original était le bon…

```suggestion
2. you write the feature definition down in this card,
```

> 3. you play poker with your teammates to give this card an estimation,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. you play planning poker with your teammates to give this card an estimation,
```

> 4. you work the hell out of your sweat and blood to get the job done,

Reviewer: Je ne suis pas certain mais il me semble que cette expression n’est pas très idiomatique, je me demande même si c’est grammaticalement correct. Je propose l’alternative suivante, davantage éprouvée:

```suggestion
4. you work your ass off to get the job done,
```

Author: :duck:

5. you're proud of yourself and push the whole stuff in production,
6. because you're a good developper, the production is not down.
7. the feature's definition has changed in the card, and nobody realized it
until now (see step 4),

> 8. you table flip the entire open space and think of extreme measures, like

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. you table flip the entire open space and consider extreme measures, like
```

> expatriating yourself in the Loir-Et-Cher.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
relocating to Loir-et-Cher.
```

Par ailleurs, la blague sur le Loir-et-Cher est drôle pour un francophone, par contre pas sûr que ça parle à un anglophone (et vu que l’article est en anglais…), mais bon, c’est pas forcément évident de trouver un équivalent plus universel, j’en conviens, donc au pire ça passe.

> This little story brought to light the emergency for us to keep the history of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This little story brought to light the urgent need for us to log the history of
```

every changes made against a project's card. That way, we could have the
opportunity to point an accusing "AHA!" finger at the unfortunate one who

> surreptitiously changed that card description.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
surreptitiously changed that card's description.
```

## From the idea to the POC

We approached the problem with the idea of using a
[web extension](https://developer.mozilla.org/fr/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions).
They offer a convenient way to enhance the navigation experience and could be

> written using traditional browser side web technologies (HTML, CSS, JS). So we

Reviewer: ```suggestion
written using traditional browser-side web technologies (HTML, CSS, JS). So we
```

created a POC during our last winter hackathon in January, to demonstrate that
what we intended to do was possible:

> - Access a card history,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- access a card history,
```

> good old XmlHttpRequest. To be called, the API requires explicit authentication:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
good old XmlHttpRequest. In order to be called, the API requires explicit authentication:
```

> 1. An auto generated API key,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. an auto-generated API key,
```

2. a token that is generated once the end user granted the API access, on behalf

> of the API key identified user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of the API key-identified user.
```

> Although this first version quite worked well, it also had several drawbacks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although this first version worked quite well, it also had several drawbacks.
```

Because Trello is an SPA and we decided to use a web extension, we had trouble

> dealing with asynchronicity. Indeed, the Trello API only let us perform actions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dealing with asynchronicity. Indeed, the Trello API only lets us perform actions
```

> on domain oriented objects (card, boards, members...). That is, we still had no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on domain-oriented objects (card, boards, members…); that is: we still had no
```

> way to directly interact with the Trello front application, nor to listen for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
way to directly interact with the Trello front application, nor could we listen for
```

events such as card loading success to know **when** we should get and display
its history.

> We considered to get around this problem by observing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We considered getting around this problem by observing
```

[DOM Mutations](https://developer.mozilla.org/fr/docs/Web/API/MutationObserver),

> and detect when a specific element entered the DOM, identified by its class or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and detecting when a specific element entered the DOM, identified by its class or
```

> id. Oh listen, what's that sound ? It looks like the WTF alarms are ranging

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ID. Oh listen, what's that sound ? It sounds like the WTF alarms are ranging
```

Trello offers another possibility to build features upon their application, with

> what they so called [Power ups](https://trello.com/power-ups). See them as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
their so-called [Power ups](https://trello.com/power-ups). You can see them as
```

> external libraries which communicate with third services like Google, Facebook

Reviewer: ```suggestion
external libraries which communicate with third-party services like Google, Facebook
```

or the one you built with your little fingers. An important limitation though,
these power ups are tied to specific locations opened by Trello, such as
`card-back`, `card-buttons`... These locations are designated by _capabilities_
in their vocabulary.

![](https://github.com/jaljo/articles/blob/master/trello-history/images/pu-setup.png)

> **Capabilities are set in the Trello Power-ups administration board. Notice only

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Capabilities are set in the Trello Power-ups administration board. Please note that only
```

administrators can create and expose power ups to their teams.**

At the bottom of that form, the _iframe connector url_ targets where the
application of the power up is hosted. As you can see, it must be served over

> HTTPS, which can be a bit tricky when working in development environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HTTPS, which can be a bit tricky when working in a development environment.
```

Here comes [Serveo](https://serveo.net/) to the rescue ! In a nutshell, Serveo

> lets you expose any local server to the Internet, which was handy for testing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
lets you expose any local server to the Internet, which was handy for our testing
```

> purpose. So all we had to do was to create a new project from the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
purposes. So all we had to do was to create a new project from the
```

[power up skeleton project](https://glitch.com/edit/#!/trello-power-up-skeleton)

> gracefully proposed by Trello and remix it to create our own service. This

Reviewer: ```suggestion
graciously offered by Trello and remix it to create our own service. This
```

more than transforming a `card` object returned from the API in a renderable
HTML string, and that's all !

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jaljo/articles/master/trello-history/images/history.png)

## Going further

> Of course, accessing a card history could have been achieved in many another

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Of course, accessing a card's history could have been achieved in many other
```

> way, by connecting Trello to Slack for example. That said, we liked the idea not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ways: by connecting Trello to Slack for example. That said, we liked the idea of not
```

> to depend on another service and to have an "out of the box" solution that would

Reviewer: ```suggestion
depending on another service and having an "out of the box" solution that would
```

work anywhere.

In the end, it was quite a pleasant journey to discover the Trello API and how

> to build power ups with it. Although their documentation is pretty huge,

Reviewer: Généralement _huge_ est plutôt réservé aux objets physiques il me semble.

```suggestion
to build power ups with it. Although their documentation is pretty sizable,
```

Author: sized :)

Reviewer: ?

> informations are sometime scattered, tedious to find and lacks of complete

Reviewer: _Information_ est un indénombrable en anglais.

```suggestion
information is sometimes scattered, tedious to find and lacks complete
```

examples. Power ups still are a new thing in the Trello landscape (< 100 power

> ups were released in late 2018), and we learned it the hard way when we faced

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ups were released as of late 2018), and we learned it the hard way when we faced
```

problems with the authentication process.

> Speaking of which, know that once acquired, Trello will save the authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Speaking of which, please note that once the auth token is obtained, Trello will save it
```

> token **server side**. If you're facing authentication problems or weird

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**server-side**. If you're facing authentication problems or weird
```

> behaviors, cleaning cookies or the cache browser side is not of any help.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
behavior, cleaning cookies or the browser-side cache won't be of any help.
```

> We almost went nuts because of this, until we found there was a special button

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We almost went nuts because of this, until we found out there was a special button
```

to get rid of that token:

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jaljo/articles/master/trello-history/images/reset-token.png)

> The second version was done during our last summer Hackathon, and we are pretty

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second version was done during our last summer hackathon, and we are pretty
```

proud of it. We didn't had the time to go for a better, more decoupled

> architecture, but maybe it will worth to have a look on an FRP implementation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
architecture, but it may be worth giving a try to an FRP implementation
```

> with React and Redux. We're also considering to release this power up to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with React and Redux. We're also considering releasing this power up to the
```

Trello marketplace.

If you want to give it a try, you can either:

> - host the [docker image of the project](https://cloud.docker.com/u/knplabs/repository/docker/knplabs/trello-history-powerup)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- host the [Docker image of the project](https://cloud.docker.com/u/knplabs/repository/docker/knplabs/trello-history-powerup)
```

- directly use [our hosted service](https://trello-history-powerup.s3.eu-west-3.amazonaws.com/index.html)

Feel free to browse the complete codebase on

> [Github](https://github.com/KnpLabs/trello-history-powerup) !

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[GitHub](https://github.com/KnpLabs/trello-history-powerup) !
```

architecture, maybe it will worth to have a look on an FRP implementation with
React / Redux.

In the end, the production application run in a docker container and is hosted
on a DigitalOcean droplet. Feel free to use that service in your own power up !

> [KNP History Power-up service](https://knp-trello-extension.glitch.me/)

Author: Change that URL to the production one before merging
